benchmark/README.md, before:

# Benchmarking Representation Learning for Natural World Collections
This directory contains all the resources needed to reproduce the figures and tables that are found in the CVPR 2021 paper ["Benchmarking Representation Learning for Natural World Collections."](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.16483) 

:exclamation:**TODO**: Data loaders for the NeWT tasks need to be updated for the public release of the data. 

## Python requirements
The required python modules along with the exact version that we used can be found in the [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) file. 

## Dataset Preparation
You need to download the following datasets:
  * [NeWT](https://github.com/visipedia/newt)
  * [Oxford Flowers](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/flowers/)
  * [CUB200 2011](http://www.vision.caltech.edu/visipedia/CUB-200-2011.html)
  * [NABirds](http://info.allaboutbirds.org/nabirds/)
  * [Stanford Dogs](http://vision.stanford.edu/aditya86/ImageNetDogs/main.html)
  * [Stanford Cars](https://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html)

We suggest storing all the datasets in a common directory (e.g. `/data/datasets`).

## Pretrained Model Preparation
You can download the pretrained models from the paper [here](https://cornell.box.com/s/bnyhq5lwobu6fgjrub44zle0pyjijbmw) (5.7GB).

### Available Model Configurations
|Format | Backbone | Train Dataset | Train Objective | Pretrained Weights | Identifier |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |  ---- | 
pytorch|ResNet50||random||random|
pytorch|ResNet50|ImageNet|Supervised||imagenet_supervised|
tensorflow|ResNet50|ImageNet|Supervised||imagenet_supervised_tf|
tensorflow|ResNet50|ImageNet|SimCLR||imagenet_simclr|
tensorflow|ResNet50 x4|ImageNet|SimCLR||imagenet_simclr_x4|
tensorflow|ResNet50|ImageNet|SimCLR v2||imagenet_simclr_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|ImageNet|SwAV||imagenet_swav|
pytorch|ResNet50|ImageNet|MOCO v2||imagenet_moco_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021|Supervised|ImageNet|inat2021_supervised|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021|Supervised||inat2021_supervised_from_scratch|
tensorflow|ResNet50|iNat2021|SimCLR||inat2021_simclr|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|Supervised|ImageNet|inat2021_mini_supervised|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|Supervised||inat2021_mini_supervised_from_scratch|
tensorflow|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SimCLR||inat2021_mini_simclr|
tensorflow|ResNet50 x4|iNat2021 Mini|SimCLR||inat2021_mini_simclr_x4|
tensorflow|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SimCLR v2||inat2021_mini_simclr_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SwAV||inat2021_mini_swav|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SwAV||inat2021_mini_swav_1k|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|MOCO v2||inat2021_mini_moco_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2018|Supervised|ImageNet|inat2018_supervised|



## Create user_configs.py
You need to create a user_configs.py in the `benchmark/` directory that specifies paths to the various dataset directories and pretrained model directories:
```
################
# Adjust the following paths for your local setup

# Datasets
NEWT_DATASET_DIR = '/data/datasets/newt/'
FG_DATASETS = {
    'CUB' : '/data/datasets/CUB_200_2011/CUB_200_2011/',
    'CUBExpert' : '/data/datasets/CUB_200_2011/CUB_200_2011/',
    'NABirds' : '/data/datasets/nabirds/',
    'OxfordFlowers' : '/data/datasets/oxford_flowers/',
    'StanfordDogs' : '/data/datasets/stanford_dogs/',
    'StanfordCars' : '/data/datasets/stanford_cars/',
}

# Pretrained Model Directories
PYTORCH_PRETRAINED_MODELS_DIR = '/data/models/cvpr21_newt_pretrained_models/pt/'
TENSORFLOW_PRETRAINED_MODELS_DIR = '/data/models/cvpr21_newt_pretrained_models/tf/'
``` 

## Reproduce the experiments in the paper
Run the following scripts from within the `benchmark/` directory. 

Extract features from the datasets using tensorflow models (estimated time ~10 hours):
```
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 TF_CPP_MIN_LOG_LEVEL=3 python tf_extract_features.py \
--newt_feature_dir newt_features \
--fg_feature_dir fg_features \
--batch_size 64 \
--x4_batch_size 16 
```


Extract features from the datasets using pytorch models (estimated time ~3 hours):
```
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python pt_extract_features.py \
--newt_feature_dir newt_features \
--fg_feature_dir fg_features \
--batch_size 64
```


Evaluate linear models on the pre-extracted NeWT features (estimated time ~3 hours (02:48:31)):
```
$ python evaluate_linear_models.py \
--feature_dir newt_features \
--result_dir newt_results_linearsvc_1000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--model linearsvc \
--max_iter 1000 \
--standardize \
--normalize \
--grid_search
```

Evaluate linear models on the pre-extracted FG Datasets features (estimated time ~10 hours (09:36:28)):
```
$ python evaluate_linear_models.py \
--feature_dir fg_features \
--result_dir fg_results_sgd_3000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--model sgd \
--max_iter 3000 \
--standardize \
--normalize \
--grid_search
```


Create the FG datasets stem plot and latex table:
```
$ python make_fg_plots.py \
--result_dir fg_results_sgd_3000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--output_dir figures_v2
```


Create the NeWT tasks stem plot and latex table:
```
$ python make_newt_plots.py \
--result_dir newt_results_linearsvc_1000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--output_dir figures_v2
```

## Cite the Paper
```
@inproceedings{vanhorn2021newt,
  title={Benchmarking Representation Learning for Natural World Collections},
  author={Van Horn, Grant and Cole, Elijah and Beery, Sara and Wilber, Kimberly and Belongie, Serge and Mac Aodha, Oisin},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition},
  year={2021}
}
```

Commit message:

adding a reproducable conda env with python 3.9

benchmark/README.md, after:

# Benchmarking Representation Learning for Natural World Collections
This directory contains all the resources needed to reproduce the figures and tables that are found in the CVPR 2021 paper ["Benchmarking Representation Learning for Natural World Collections."](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.16483) 

:exclamation:**TODO**: Data loaders for the NeWT tasks need to be updated for the public release of the data. 

## Python requirements
~~The required python modules along with the exact version that we used can be found in the [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) file.~~

The environment is reproducable using the `newtenv.yaml` file and [miniconda](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html#linux-installers). Run:

```bash
$ conda env create -f newtenv.yaml
$ conda activate newtenv
```


## Dataset Preparation
You need to download the following datasets:
  * [NeWT](https://github.com/visipedia/newt)
  * [Oxford Flowers](https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/data/flowers/)
  * [CUB200 2011](http://www.vision.caltech.edu/visipedia/CUB-200-2011.html)
  * [NABirds](http://info.allaboutbirds.org/nabirds/)
  * [Stanford Dogs](http://vision.stanford.edu/aditya86/ImageNetDogs/main.html)
  * [Stanford Cars](https://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html)

We suggest storing all the datasets in a common directory (e.g. `/data/datasets`).

## Pretrained Model Preparation
You can download the pretrained models from the paper [here](https://cornell.box.com/s/bnyhq5lwobu6fgjrub44zle0pyjijbmw) (5.7GB).

### Available Model Configurations
|Format | Backbone | Train Dataset | Train Objective | Pretrained Weights | Identifier |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |  ---- | 
pytorch|ResNet50||random||random|
pytorch|ResNet50|ImageNet|Supervised||imagenet_supervised|
tensorflow|ResNet50|ImageNet|Supervised||imagenet_supervised_tf|
tensorflow|ResNet50|ImageNet|SimCLR||imagenet_simclr|
tensorflow|ResNet50 x4|ImageNet|SimCLR||imagenet_simclr_x4|
tensorflow|ResNet50|ImageNet|SimCLR v2||imagenet_simclr_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|ImageNet|SwAV||imagenet_swav|
pytorch|ResNet50|ImageNet|MOCO v2||imagenet_moco_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021|Supervised|ImageNet|inat2021_supervised|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021|Supervised||inat2021_supervised_from_scratch|
tensorflow|ResNet50|iNat2021|SimCLR||inat2021_simclr|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|Supervised|ImageNet|inat2021_mini_supervised|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|Supervised||inat2021_mini_supervised_from_scratch|
tensorflow|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SimCLR||inat2021_mini_simclr|
tensorflow|ResNet50 x4|iNat2021 Mini|SimCLR||inat2021_mini_simclr_x4|
tensorflow|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SimCLR v2||inat2021_mini_simclr_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SwAV||inat2021_mini_swav|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|SwAV||inat2021_mini_swav_1k|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2021 Mini|MOCO v2||inat2021_mini_moco_v2|
pytorch|ResNet50|iNat2018|Supervised|ImageNet|inat2018_supervised|



## Create user_configs.py
You need to create a user_configs.py in the `benchmark/` directory that specifies paths to the various dataset directories and pretrained model directories:
```
################
# Adjust the following paths for your local setup

# Datasets
NEWT_DATASET_DIR = '/data/datasets/newt/'
FG_DATASETS = {
    'CUB' : '/data/datasets/CUB_200_2011/CUB_200_2011/',
    'CUBExpert' : '/data/datasets/CUB_200_2011/CUB_200_2011/',
    'NABirds' : '/data/datasets/nabirds/',
    'OxfordFlowers' : '/data/datasets/oxford_flowers/',
    'StanfordDogs' : '/data/datasets/stanford_dogs/',
    'StanfordCars' : '/data/datasets/stanford_cars/',
}

# Pretrained Model Directories
PYTORCH_PRETRAINED_MODELS_DIR = '/data/models/cvpr21_newt_pretrained_models/pt/'
TENSORFLOW_PRETRAINED_MODELS_DIR = '/data/models/cvpr21_newt_pretrained_models/tf/'
``` 

## Reproduce the experiments in the paper
Run the following scripts from within the `benchmark/` directory. 

Extract features from the datasets using tensorflow models (estimated time ~10 hours):
```
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 TF_CPP_MIN_LOG_LEVEL=3 python tf_extract_features.py \
--newt_feature_dir newt_features \
--fg_feature_dir fg_features \
--batch_size 64 \
--x4_batch_size 16 
```


Extract features from the datasets using pytorch models (estimated time ~3 hours):
```
$ CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python pt_extract_features.py \
--newt_feature_dir newt_features \
--fg_feature_dir fg_features \
--batch_size 64
```


Evaluate linear models on the pre-extracted NeWT features (estimated time ~3 hours (02:48:31)):
```
$ python evaluate_linear_models.py \
--feature_dir newt_features \
--result_dir newt_results_linearsvc_1000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--model linearsvc \
--max_iter 1000 \
--standardize \
--normalize \
--grid_search
```

Evaluate linear models on the pre-extracted FG Datasets features (estimated time ~10 hours (09:36:28)):
```
$ python evaluate_linear_models.py \
--feature_dir fg_features \
--result_dir fg_results_sgd_3000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--model sgd \
--max_iter 3000 \
--standardize \
--normalize \
--grid_search
```


Create the FG datasets stem plot and latex table:
```
$ python make_fg_plots.py \
--result_dir fg_results_sgd_3000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--output_dir figures_v2
```


Create the NeWT tasks stem plot and latex table:
```
$ python make_newt_plots.py \
--result_dir newt_results_linearsvc_1000_standardize_noramlize_grid_search \
--output_dir figures_v2
```

## Cite the Paper
```
@inproceedings{vanhorn2021newt,
  title={Benchmarking Representation Learning for Natural World Collections},
  author={Van Horn, Grant and Cole, Elijah and Beery, Sara and Wilber, Kimberly and Belongie, Serge and Mac Aodha, Oisin},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition},
  year={2021}
}
```
